[Music]
hello hello are you the party to whom I
am speaking I am with the FBI yes that
FBI got a call saying you're under
investigation
hang up immediately each year more than
15 million Americans fall for phony
schemes connected with identity fraud
and this figure just keeps growing as
the deceptive techniques these criminals
are using increase in number and
sophistication with every passing week
nowadays you have to be especially
cautious because scammers are using a
new trick called spoofing this scheme
allows identity thieves to create fake
emails phone numbers or IP addresses so
that they can pretend to be someone else
in order to get a hold of your personal
information and in this video you'll
learn why you should hang up immediately
if you get a call and the other person
on the line tells you that you're under
investigation unfortunately that's not
the only trick criminals use that's why
it's a good idea to click that subscribe
button before you start watching the
video on the bright side of life you'll
always be kept updated on the newest
frauds and criminal ploys out there
alright let's get back to this whole
spoofing thing it may be a bit
unsettling to hear but it's super easy
for those who know what they're doing to
hijack let's say a phone number there
are programs out there such as spoof
card that allow practically anyone to
disguise their phone number with one of
their choosing it might be the coffee
shop next door or the phone number of
the local police station what's even
scarier is that services like spoof cars
can mask a phone number so well that
it'll even show up on your bill as the
police IRS or any other organization of
the like
this also doesn't make life easier for
victims of stalking they can't get
enough proof that their stalker is
harassing them so that they can seek
legal protection the creators of the app
apparently don't give two hoots about
this serious problem one of the most
recent blog entries on the company's
website explains step by step how you
can contact your ex if they've blocked
your number disgusting and irresponsible
I know you may be wondering why these
sorts of applications were created in
the first place their original intent
was supposedly for private investigators
debt collectors and people of similar
professions who needed to conceal their
true identity but since these apps were
available for anyone to download phone
pranksters were also more than happy to
have fun pretending to be FBI agents or
police officers but what started as an
innocent form of entertainment well
maybe not so innocent but still soon
gave scammers an idea on how they can
use it to their benefit the gear under
investigation scheme so here's how this
type of fraud works first of all do you
know many people who are eager to answer
a call from an unknown number me neither
typically most of us are suspicious of
calls from numbers we don't recognize
that's why criminals have to create an
atmosphere of urgency to achieve this
they begin a string of calls one after
the other in the span of a couple of
minutes
let's imagine you're getting such a call
at first you're totally unwilling to
pick up after three or four calls you
start thinking that it's probably
important and that you should answer but
before doing that you decide to check
the number with the help of Google and
what do you see on the screen in front
of you it's the number of the FBI who
man your heart stops
so you either call them back yourself or
answer your phone when it rings again
the person on the other end calls you by
your name and immediately starts
building up the sense of urgency they
inform you that the matter is extremely
important and ask you if you are aware
that you're under investigation by the
FBI they're pretty good at making it
sound believable too they may ask
questions like have you been briefed on
your file do you know that it's very
serious and right now agents may be on
their way to arrest you
aha what you're getting more and more
confused and nervous but when you try to
get more information like what crime are
they investigating me for when where
what you're given just more threats in
return you're at a loss probably
hysterical at this point and don't know
what you should do there's only one
right course of action
hang up immediately that's not a federal
agent
it's a scammer oh by the way the choice
of nasty epithets to call the scammer
just before you hang up on him is
entirely up to you that's the creative
part left just for you kiddo Paige
Hanson the chief of identity education
at LifeLock a company that specializes
in identity theft protection explains
that this is one of the most common
tricks criminals use to get your
personal data it happens to plenty of
people and unfortunately many fall for
it the thing is that there are a lot of
skilled psychologists among scammers
they understand that when a person
receives a lot of calls over a short
period of time it becomes hard to resist
the urge to answer the phone and as soon
as they do they hear a fear-inducing
message spiced up with a feeling of
urgency who wouldn't fall for this at
least in the first few minutes these
types of fraudulent calls caused
countless problems for regulators who
are trying to stop them the Federal
Trade Commission reports that in New
York State alone there have been more
than
16,000 documented complaints of impostor
calls on a national scale the number of
these calls reaches 300,000 but you
should also take into consideration that
most people don't report fraudulent
calls which means that these figures
might just be scratching the surface but
how can I understand that the call isn't
from a real FBI agent or police officer
valid question so let's answer it first
of all the FBI warns that they obviously
never call private citizens and
threatened to arrest them or demand
money and chances are that if you really
are under an FBI investigation they
wouldn't inform you about this over the
phone
otherwise you'd have time to escape
right uh-huh but you're going to be
arrested in 3 2 1
scam one more identity fraud scheme
involves a call from the number of the
local police you pick up the phone and a
robotic voice informs you that officers
are coming to arrest you you hear you
are going to be taken into custody due
to a number of serious allegations you
can get back to us so that we can
discuss the matter before any legal
action is taken against you well almost
robotic a call like this will certainly
evoke lots of questions why would they
tell me in advance that they're about to
arrest me to give me some time to escape
why would the police want to negotiate
with an alleged criminal a person with
legit questions like this would probably
just hang up on scammers upon hearing
such nonsense however there are people
who lose thousands of dollars after
falling for this type of fraud the
fraudulent activity on your account
scheme threatening people who are
according to scammers under
investigation isn't the only way to make
people give away their personal data one
more technique criminals use is
pretending to be authorities who
investigate fraudulent activity
on bank accounts one day you might get a
call and the person on the line will
present themselves as a police officer
or a representative of your bank their
phone number will confirm that of course
they'll inform you that your bank has
been exposed to fraud and that your
account was compromised
after that the scammers will explain
that in order to find the guilty party
and arrest them they'll need you to
confirm your account information you'll
be asked to provide your card number
security code and even your pin number
in some cases the scammer will ask you
to enter your pin number into your phone
where it'll immediately be captured by
the identity thieves and while this
scheme may seem brazen enough as is
scammers take it even further they ask
potential victims to withdraw cash from
their bank so that the money can be
forensically examined who after that you
get instructions to put the money and
perhaps your credit and debit cards as
well in an envelope and hand it over to
a courier that will show up at your door
soon it's outrageous I know but if you
voice your doubts the font stirs will
calmly suggest that you call the police
or contact your bank so that they can
confirm the identity of those calling
you but the thing is the criminals don't
hang up so even if you've ended the call
the line will remain open and when you
call the police or your bank you'll be
connected right back to the scammers
they'll pretend to be other people this
time and we'll do everything to convince
you that the claims of fraud are valid
well you're probably thinking that this
sounds way too ridiculous to fall for
but there are those who do it's usually
people over 60 that fall victim to such
manipulations and they are exactly how
criminals are targeting in most cases so
if you don't already try to make it a
habit to keep your elderly relatives and
acquaintances informed about this type
of fraud so that they don't buy into it
how not to become a victim first and
foremost always keep your guard up if
you receive a weird phone call you
should already start getting suspicious
remember that police and your bank will
never ask you to reveal your PIN number
or bank account details over the phone
withdraw cash and send it somewhere with
a courier send your personal belongings
such as bank cards off with a courier or
taxi or someone else if you want to
check whether or not the number that's
called you is fake wait for at least
five minutes otherwise you'll probably
get reconnected to the scammer if you're
suspicious of a phone call report it to
the police they may be able to figure
out where the call has come from and
please tell your older family members
and friends about this fraud and help
them stay safe and informed so that they
don't get taken advantage of by these
identity thieves so how would you react
to receiving a fraudulent call would you
just hang up and forget about the
incident or go further and report it to
the authorities tell us in the comments
below also let us know about your
experience with this type of scam if you
have any and if you found this video
informative and useful go ahead and give
it a like and share it with everyone you
know let's get the message out there so
that these criminals can't prey on
people anymore
stay on the safe and bright side of life